第一章 Go语言介绍
=================

本章解决如下问题:
1. 使用Go语言解决现代计算挑战
2. 使用go命令

Computers have evolved, but programming languages haven’t kept up the same pace of evolution. The cell phones we carry might have more CPU cores than the first computer we used. High-powered servers now have 64, 128, or even more cores, but we’re still programming using the techniques we were using for a single core.
The art of programming has evolved too. Most programs aren’t written by a sin- gle developer any more: they’re written by teams of people sitting in different time zones and working at different times of the day. Large projects are broken up into smaller pieces and assigned to programmers who then deliver their work back to the team in the form of a library or package that can be used across an entire suite of applications.
Today’s programmers and companies believe more than ever in the power of open source software. Go is a programming language that makes sharing code easy. Go ships with tools that make it simple to use packages written by others, and Go makes it easy to share our own packages too.

In this chapter you’ll see how Go is different from other programming languages. Go rethinks the traditional object-oriented development you might be used to, while still providing an efficient means for code reuse. Go makes it easier for you to effec- tively use all of the cores on your expensive server, and it takes away the penalty of compiling a very large project.
As you read this chapter, you’ll get a feeling for the many decisions that shaped the creation of Go, from its concurrency model to its lightning-fast compiler. We mentioned it in the preface, but it bears repeating: this book has been written for an intermediate-level developer who has some experience with other programming lan- guages and wants to learn Go. Our goal in writing this book is to provide you an inten- sive, comprehensive, and idiomatic view of the language. We focus on both the specification and implementation of the language, including the wide-ranging topics of language syntax, Go’s type system, concurrency, channels, testing, and more. We believe this book is perfect for anyone who wants a jump-start in learning Go or who wants a more thorough understanding of the language and its internals.
The source code for the examples in the book is available at https://github.com/ goinaction/code.
We hope you’ll appreciate the tools that ship with Go to make your life as a devel- oper easier. In the end, you’ll appreciate why so many developers are choosing Go when they start up that new project.


## 1.1 使用Go语言来解决现代编程挑战

The Go team went to great lengths to solve the problems facing software developers today. Developers have to make an uncomfortable choice between rapid development and performance when choosing a language for their projects. Languages like C and C++ offer fast execution, whereas languages like Ruby and Python offer rapid develop- ment. Go bridges these competing worlds and offers a high-performance language with features that make development fast.
As we explore Go, you’ll find well-planned features and concise syntax. As a lan- guage, Go is defined not only by what it includes, but by what it doesn’t include. Go has a concise syntax with few keywords to memorize. Go has a compiler that’s so fast, sometimes you’ll forget it’s running. As a Go developer, you’ll spend significantly less time waiting for your project to build. Because of Go’s built-in concurrency features, your software will scale to use the resources available without forcing you to use spe- cial threading libraries. Go uses a simple and effective type system that takes much of the overhead out of object-oriented development and lets you focus on code reuse. Go also has a garbage collector, so you don’t have to manage your own memory. Let’s look quickly at these key features.


### 1.1.1 Development speed

### 1.1.2 Concurrency

### 1.1.3 Go’s type system

### 1.1.4 Memory management

